1. Why Map-reduce program is needed in Pig Programming?

Pig engine will inturn converts pig script to MR to process large amounts of data

2. What are advantages of pig over MapReduce?

Pig is application that runs on top of MapReduce and abstracts Java MapReduce jobs away from developers.
Pig Latin uses a lot fewer lines of code than the Java MapReduce script.
The Pig Latin script was is easier to read for someone without a Java background.
MapReduce jobs can written in Pig Latin.
It is too dificult to join two data sets in MR which can be easily done in PIG

3. What is pig engine and what is its importance?

Pig engine acts as interpreter between Pig latin script and map reduce jobs.
It creates an environment to execute pig scripts into series of mapreduce jobs in parallel manner.

4. What are the modes of Pig execution?

Local Mode - To run Pig in local mode, you need access to a single machine; all files are installed and run using your local host and file system. ...
Mapreduce Mode - To run Pig in mapreduce mode, you need access to a Hadoop cluster and HDFS installation.

5. What is grunt shell in Pig?

You can run Pig three ways – using either local mode or hadoop (mapreduce) mode:

Grunt Shell: Enter Pig commands manually using Pig’s interactive shell, Grunt.
Script File: Place Pig commands in a script file and run the script.
Embedded Program: Embed Pig commands in a host language and run the program.

6. What are the features of Pig Latin language?

Pig Latin is a dataflow language. Each processing step results in a new data set, or relation.
 In input = load 'data', input is the name of the relation that results from loading the data set data. 

Pig Latin is Pig's language that allows developers to sort, join, parse, transform and calculate unstructured and
 semi-structured data in MapReduce all while using a language similar to SQL versus Java.
A relation name is referred to as an alias. Relation names look like variables, but they are not. Once made, an assignment is permanent.

7. Is Pig latin commands case sensitive?

Pig Latin are not case-sensitive; for example, LOAD is equivalent to load . 
But relation and field names are. So A = load 'foo'; is not equivalent to a = load 'foo'; .
8. What is a data flow language?